Title is automatically set
==========================

.. course::


MacOS became popular for scientific work when it became based on Unix:
it provided an easy interface *and* the shell, which is a great
combination.

This page gets you set up for basic scientific work using Python.

You can check out this video by Software Carpentry:
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9LQhwETCdwY


Shell tools
-----------

Mac comes with the bash (or zsh for 10.15 and later), so you don't
need to do anything.  Just start it by TODO.  To verify, try running
this::

  echo $SHELL


Version control (git)
---------------------

You install Git for MacOS by downloading the most recent "mavricks"
installer from
http://sourceforge.net/projects/git-osx-installer/files/

Nothing appears in Applications, since it's a command line program.
From

Verify it from the shell terminal::

  git --version



Anaconda (Python)
-----------------

There are very many programming languages, and you probably won't only
use Python.  But, it is quite common so we mention it here.  We
install the Anaconda distribution of Python: it gets you all the basic
things you need, and can also install R and other programming
languages, too.  Anaconda is large and has all the most common things
people need - if you want to save space, install Miniconda instead
(then you have to decide what extra packages you want).

* `Anaconda <https://docs.continuum.io/anaconda/install>`_
* `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>`_

This will get you Jupyter and many other Python things, too.

.. todo::

   Same stuff from Linux page.  How to use it.



Homebrew
--------

Homebrew is a package manager for MacOS, which lets you install lots
of packages easily.  Many of these are essential to having a good
environment for programming, and taking full advantage of MacOS.

To install, go to `brew.sh and follow instructions
<https://brew.sh/>`_.  You can then, for example, use ``brew install``
to install many things you may need.

After installing, you can run ``brew doctor`` to ensure everything was installed correctly.


Editor
------

FOR IDE (Integrated development environment):
Visual Studio Code is a free editor available for Windows, macOS and Linux. It is a good alternative for both a beginner and
a more advanced user as it is simple to use but highly customizable.
Install and learn more `here <https://code.visualstudio.com/Download>`_.
Out of principle, we recommend you `disable data collection <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/supporting/faq#_how-to-disable-telemetry-reporting>`_.

For command line: You should make sure ``nano`` is installed by typing in the shell for instance, ``nano my_file.txt``. You can also use vi/vim or emacs but
as those are harder to use, we do not recommend them for your first command line editor.
Nano is used through keyboard shortcuts and some of them are shown in the editor. See `this <https://www.tutorialspoint.com/how-to-use-nano-text-editor>`_
tutorial to start editing with nano.


Jupyter
-------

`Jupyter <https://jupyter.org>`_ is an interactive way to explore
data.  It's already installed along with Anaconda.



Other programming tools
-----------------------
