Title is automatically set
==========================

.. highlight:: console

.. course::


About Windows
-------------

Windows is perhaps the most common operating system for desktop
computers, but historically hasn't been that common or good for
scientific work.  However, this is changing and these days you can do
a lot of good stuff with Windows if you set it up right.  We'll walk
through it here.


Shell tools
-----------

Windows comes with CMD (``cmd.exe``) known as command prompt. You can find CMD by typing ``cmd`` in your start menu search bar.
A slightly better alternative would be a Git bash command line because Windows command prompt does not support many UNIX commands.
Git Bash emulates a bash environment and lets you use all git features plus most of standard unix commands - so you are immediately
compatible with Mac and Linux.

See the next section for installation instructions.


Version control (git)
---------------------

To install Git Bash, follow `this <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=339AEqk9c-8>`_ tutorial made by Software Carpentry.
You only need to follow the video instructions for Git Bash (until 2:50) because the newest versions of Git Bash should install
the needed \*nix environment tools automatically.

Please note that the Git setup window will ask you to choose your default text editor and it will first suggest vi/vim. However,
we do not recommend vi/vim for your first command line editor but rather to change it to nano text editor, which is more easier
for a beginner to use.

After you are all set up, open your Git Bash and try it out by typing for example:
``nano`` and
``git --version``

Links:

* `Git Bash <https://git-scm.com/download/win>`_
* `Nano text editor tutorial <https://www.tutorialspoint.com/how-to-use-nano-text-editor>`_
* Git can also be installed through Anaconda



Anaconda (Python)
-----------------

There are very many programming languages, and you probably won't only
use Python.  But, it is quite common so we mention it here.  We
install the Anaconda distribution of Python: it gets you all the basic
things you need, and can also install R and other programming
languages, too.  Anaconda is large and has all the most common tools
people need - if you want to save space, install Miniconda instead
(then you have to decide what extra packages you want).

* `Anaconda <https://docs.continuum.io/anaconda/install>`_
* `Miniconda <https://docs.conda.io/en/latest/miniconda.html>`_

Copy other information from
https://coderefinery.github.io/installation/python/


.. todo::

   We need to give details about how to use it.



Editor
------

For IDE (Integrated development environment): Visual Studio Code by Microsoft is a free source code editor.
It offers customizable functionalities for a more advanced user but is simple enough for a beginner to start with. 
Install and learn more `here <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/windows>`_.

Other good alternative for Windows is Notepad++ source code and text editor. Notepad++ is not exactly an IDE as it lacks
features that IDEs have but plugins are available to add functionalities. Download and read more `here <https://notepad-plus-plus.org>`_.


Jupyter
-------

`Jupyter <https://jupyter.org>`_ is an interactive way to explore
data.  It's already installed along with Anaconda.  To
start it in a certain directory, go to that directory in the shell and
run::

  $ jupyter notebook       # older notebook interface
  $ jupyter lab            # newer JupyterLab interface


Follow `this <https://coderefinery.github.io/installation/jupyter/>`_ to install useful extensions to your
environment. Especially ipywidgets are needed if you continue to do exercises. 

Other programming tools
-----------------------

For remote network tools: `MobaXterm <https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net>`_
