For teachers
============

If you are here, you are probably a teacher of some course that
requires basic practical computational skills (Linux command line,
git, shell scripting, etc), but you don't want to have to teach that
yourself.  We have the solution for you here, which can be used in
different ways:

* Send your students here when it is clear they are missing some
  prerequisites
* Add this course as a soft prerequisite/recommended reading
* You contribute new material here, instead of making your own
  prerequisite documents.

Our philosophy is "all the basics someone needs to know is online
somewhere", so we help people find that rather than try to make our
own material.  This also helps people become more self-sufficient in
the future.



Sample text
-----------

This could be added to your course prerequisites/syllabus, for
example:


    To succeed in this course, it is best to have some practical
    skills in {Linux and command line work, lightweight software
    development tools, ...}.
    You can review this at https://hands-on.coderefinery.org/.
    For this course, the {C and D levels are important for success.
    You should especially focus on C10 Basic shell, C23 Text editors
    and IDEs, C20 Shell Scripting, and all D-level modules}.  Quickly
    browsing and going back when you need more details is fine.



What content should be added here?
----------------------------------

This site isn't about basic programming courses or the kinds of things
you would teach in your courses.  It also isn't about writing our own
new material - almost everything can be found online, somewhere.  We
want to make that easy to find.  It also doesn't replace a dedicated
course on these topics: this is more informal and just a starting
point.

It is likely that you will know of or find some **better
videos/reading material than what we have currently linked**.  Please
send that to us!  We have two categories, short video intro intros
(hopefully with examples) and then longer reading, about an hour or
so.

**There may also be modules (topic + description + video + reading)
which could be added.**  We will try to have some editorial judgment
to keep the "main list" short, but we have an "extras" area for each
level.

To submit a proposal, please use the `GitHub repository
<https://github.com/coderefinery/handsonscicomp>`__ if possible.  You
can read more about directly modifying the source with pull requests
on the `contributing page
<https://github.com/coderefinery/handsonscicomp/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.rst>`__.

